syllabus.md, before:

---
layout: base
title: 2013 Syllabus
---
#Spring 2013 Administrative Details
##Instruction
Instructor: Adam Walz  
Email: <adamwalz@jdchs.org>  
github: [www.github.com/jd-adam](https://github.com/jd-adam)  
twitter: [JDAdamwalz](https://twitter.com/JDAdamwalz)

##Course Contact
Website: [jd-ios.github.com](http://jd-ios.github.com)

##Prerequisites
Prior programming experience at the level of 9610-AP (AP Computer Science A).

##Course Material
Introduction to mobile programming, Objective-C language syntax,
memory management, static code analysis, custom classes, computer graphics,
mobile application lifecycles, Model-View-Controller design patterns,
designing for re-use, web service integration, RESTful web services,
hardware interaction, power as a first-order design constraint,
and source code management with git and github.

##Course Outcomes
At the conclusion of this course, students should be able to:

1.	Design and implement applications on a mobile device using the
	model-view-controller design pattern.
2.	Understand and be able to quantify the effects of different software
	design decisions on mobile device battery life.
3.	Design and implement self-contained, reusable user interface elements
	that meet or exceed the design criteria of existing industry standard
	user interface libraries.
4.	Understand how to use distributed source code management tools as an
	individual programmer and as part of a team.
5.	Possibly make money by putting your work in this course on the app store.

#Syllabus
<table border="1" cellpadding="10">
	<caption>Quarter 3 - iOS 5 and Single-User Applications</caption>
	<tr>
		<th>Week</th>
		<th>Topic(s)</th>
		<th>Assignment</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>Model, View, Controller</td>
		<td>None</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>Objective-C Basics</td>
		<td>None</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>3</td>
		<td>Views and Gestures</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>4</td>
		<td>Table View and Page View</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>5</td>
		<td>Storyboarding, Navigation, Scrolling</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>6</td>
		<td>Data Persistence</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>7</td>
		<td>Web Services</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>8</td>
		<td>Camera and Alerts</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>9</td>
		<td>Universal Apps</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>10</td>
		<td>Push Notifications</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<br/>
<table border="1" cellpadding="10">
	<caption>Quarter 4 - iOS 6 and Multi-User Applications</caption>
	<tr>
		<th>Week</th>
		<th>Topic(s)</th>
		<th>Assignment</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>iOS 6 Features</td>
		<td>None</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>Multi-User: Database Integration</td>
		<td>None</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>3</td>
		<td>Multi-User: Syncing with iCloud/Google</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>4-8</td>
		<td>Class Choice</td>
		<td>Final Projects</td>
	</tr>

</table>

Commit message:

Add About the Instructor to syllabus

syllabus.md, after:

---
layout: base
title: 2013 Syllabus
---
#Spring 2013 Administrative Details
##Instruction
Instructor: Adam Walz  
Email: <adamwalz@jdchs.org>  
github: [www.github.com/jd-adam](https://github.com/jd-adam)  
twitter: [JDAdamwalz](https://twitter.com/JDAdamwalz)

##Course Contact
Website: [jd-ios.github.com](http://jd-ios.github.com)

##Prerequisites
Prior programming experience at the level of 9610-AP (AP Computer Science A).

##Course Material
Introduction to mobile programming, Objective-C language syntax,
memory management, static code analysis, custom classes, computer graphics,
mobile application lifecycles, Model-View-Controller design patterns,
designing for re-use, web service integration, RESTful web services,
hardware interaction, power as a first-order design constraint,
and source code management with git and github.

##Course Outcomes
At the conclusion of this course, students should be able to:

1.	Design and implement applications on a mobile device using the
	model-view-controller design pattern.
2.	Understand and be able to quantify the effects of different software
	design decisions on mobile device battery life.
3.	Design and implement self-contained, reusable user interface elements
	that meet or exceed the design criteria of existing industry standard
	user interface libraries.
4.	Understand how to use distributed source code management tools as an
	individual programmer and as part of a team.
5.	Possibly make money by putting your work in this course on the app store.

###About the Instructor
Adam Walz is a former student of Juan Diego Catholic High School and is currently
enrolled in the masters program at the University of Utah studying Computer
Science with an emphasis in Artificial Intelligence and Maching Learning. He has
served as a teaching assistant in the School of Computing for the past five
semesters teaching Introduction to Computer Science I and II, Discrete Mathematics, 
and Probability and Statistics. Adam has held positions as a software developer
in iOS mobile development and is excited to relay his experiences on to his students.

#Syllabus
<table border="1" cellpadding="10">
	<caption>Quarter 3 - iOS 5 and Single-User Applications</caption>
	<tr>
		<th>Week</th>
		<th>Topic(s)</th>
		<th>Assignment</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>Model, View, Controller</td>
		<td>None</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>Objective-C Basics</td>
		<td>None</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>3</td>
		<td>Views and Gestures</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>4</td>
		<td>Table View and Page View</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>5</td>
		<td>Storyboarding, Navigation, Scrolling</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>6</td>
		<td>Data Persistence</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>7</td>
		<td>Web Services</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>8</td>
		<td>Camera and Alerts</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>9</td>
		<td>Universal Apps</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>10</td>
		<td>Push Notifications</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<br/>
<table border="1" cellpadding="10">
	<caption>Quarter 4 - iOS 6 and Multi-User Applications</caption>
	<tr>
		<th>Week</th>
		<th>Topic(s)</th>
		<th>Assignment</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>iOS 6 Features</td>
		<td>None</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>Multi-User: Database Integration</td>
		<td>None</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>3</td>
		<td>Multi-User: Syncing with iCloud/Google</td>
		<td>TBA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>4-8</td>
		<td>Class Choice</td>
		<td>Final Projects</td>
	</tr>

</table>
