---
layout: assignment
title: Model, View, Controller
excerpt: First assignment
category: assignments
assign_num: 1
due_date: 2013-01-30 17:00
tags:
- mvc
---

Now that we have the lab set up for modern Objective-C development,
this first assignment is geared toward getting you up to speed on
Xcode as a development environment. Xcode provides a graphical
interface which generates code behind the scenes to alleviate the
need for you to write a lot of User Interface code yourself. This
assignment is a re-do of the example I provided in class, but allows
you to have the hands on experience of creating it yourself. For this
assignment I will not be providing a github skeleton version, but
instead you will start from scratch and this will be the baseline for
future assignments. After it is due, I will make any necessary
changes to make sure it works for future assignments, and you will
have a quiz describing the changes made.

# The Assignment Walkthrough
After seeing how MVC works in a theoretical diagram sense, our next
inclination is to see how it works in the real world. This walkthrough
will show an example of how we can apply MVC to our planner
application. 

## Creating a New Application
To start out, we will create an application from scratch by opening
Xcode and navigating to *File* -> *New* -> *Project...* or simply
opening Xcode and clicking *Create a new Xcode project* button under
the **Welcome to Xcode** header on the welcome window. 

For all of the applications we create in this class, we will use the
*Single View Application* template which provides us with a view
controller and a storyboard. Click this icon and then click *Next*

On the next screen, these options configure your template

+ Product Name: <Name that appears on the iPhone springboard>
+ Organization Name: Juan Diego Catholic High School
+ Company Identifier: org.jdchs.jdios.<Your Name>
+ Class Prefix: JD <Or any string, usually a 2 or 3 character prefix>
+ Devices: iPhone
+ Use storyboards: Check
+ Use automatic reference counting: CHECK
+ Include Unit Tests: Unchecked

Now that you are in your project, you start on a screen that shows
project attributes that you can change in the UI and will generate a
preference file defining what your application is, how it should look,
what it requires, and how it is built. I encourage you to play around
in here and see what options are available. To get back to this
project setting screen, click on the project name the file navigator
view on the let. 

Speaking of views, there are three options for what to view on screen
at one time. To change between these three, look in the upper right
hand corder of Xcode for a set of buttons labeled *View*. These can
all be checked at the same time, or none of them. The three views are 

+ The navigator view for file navigation of the left
+ The debug view for console output and debugger interaction on the
bottom
+ The utilities view which shows detailed properties of the currently
selected object

## Looking around the template

#### main.m

Objective-C is a superset of C, so like C it needs a main method. This
file is located in the navigation view under *supporting files*. This 
is because this file will never be touched in this class. It sets up
what is called an `autoreleasepool` for memory management. It also
tells the application where to get next. In this case it will be our
main view controller, which Xcode named for me `JDViewController`

#### JDAppDelegate.h/m

This class sets up what will happen when system events occur such as
the user pressing the home button on the phone, or a call coming
in. For now the defaults are fine and we will not touch these files.

#### JDViewController.h/m

This is our custom view controller that our planner code will go
into. The template gives us a public interface in the `.h` file, a
private interface, or class extension, in the `.m` file, and an
`@implementation` section which includes some starer code. We will
talk about this starter code later and for now you can delete
everything between `@implementation` and `@end`

You'll see that the header file has a line that says `#import
<UIKit/UIKit.h>`. This line is a pre-processor directive that tells
our class to pull in code for a bunch of user interface elements. For
those of you familiar with C this is a lot like the `#include`
directive, but a lot smarter. In Objective-C an import will make sure
that the code has not already been imported and prevent an infinite
loop of imports.

Similarly the implementation file imports our header. In general, if
you need access to the methods or properties in another class, import
that class' header file.

## Creating the View in Storyboards
Open the `mainStoryboard.storyboard` in the left hand navigator and
also open the right hand utilities view. I would recommend closing all
other views to gain IDE real estate. 

The white box that appears in the middle of the screen is your
JDViewController. You can drag and drop UI elements into this
controller and then in code (You `JDViewController.m` file) you can
tell the views (minions) what to do. 

In the utilities view at the bottom there is a graphical list of all
the views in the UIKit Framework. Scroll through here to see
everything you can put in your controller without writing a single line
of code. There are more controllers (with the yellow circles around
them), views like buttons and sliders, collections, and gesture
recognizers with the alien spaceship looking images next to them.

# Your Turn

## Creating the User Interface

With the MainStoryboard.storyboard open, drag in the following views
from the  Utilities view.

+ Label
+ Round Rect Button
+ Text View
+ Stepper

Lay the views out to look something like this [UI Layout](/images/assign1/layout.png)

Take a moment to look around the attributes for each view to see what
you can change straight from the storyboard. For example, I have my
label in bold with white text, and my top level  view has a textured
background.

## Hooking up the wires

Now close the Utilities view and open the assistant editor (the button
with the tuxedo image). This will open a companion file for the
current storyboard, probably the file `JDViewController.h`. If so,
change this file to `JDViewController.m` by clicking the name
`JDViewController.h` in the tab bar directly above the code editor and
change it to `JDViewController.m`.

Delete the methods that are in here by default, we won't be using
them. So remove `viewDidLoad` and `didReceiveMemoryWarning`. Notice
however that these are delegate methods because they contain the text
`did`, `will`, or `should`.

#### Outlets

Now we want to hook up *outlets* from the storyboard to the view
controller. To do this, hold control in the storyboard and click and
drag from the text view into the private interface in
`JDViewController.m`. Remember, a private interface is in the
implementation file between `@interface JDViewController ()` and
`@end`.

There will appear a pop up prompting for which type of controller you
would like to create. This will be an `outlet`, with `weak` storage
named `plannerItemText`. Click *connect*

Do the same procedure for your stepper, but name it
`plannerItemStepper`

#### Target Action

Next we want to create a target to be notified when the user clicks a
button. The two button that are important to us are the *edit* button
and the *stepper*. 

Similarly to creating an outlet, click and drag fromt the edit button
into the **implementation** of `JDViewController`. This by default
will create an action when the user touches the edit
button. Technically, the action will be called when the user lifts
their finger off (*touch up*) the button (*inside*). The argument
`sender` is the button that sent the action, so it's type should be
`UIButton` instead of the generic `id` type. Name this action
`EditButtonTapped` and click *connect*

Lastly, do the same thing for the stepper view. The action will occur
when the value of the stepper changes. The type should be `UIStepper`,
and it should be named `PlannerItemStepperChanged`

## Create the *Model* for the Planner

The model of the planner will need to store the planner items that the
user inputs into the text box. The key here is *items*: we don't know
exactly how many items the user will want to input. Therefore our
model needs be *mutable* meaning the size can change. We will use a
mutable array to hold the text from the text box. 

In the navigator view, single click the file
`JDViewController.h`. This should open the header file in the main
editor and the implementation file in the assistant editor. 

Create the model array as a property, which is a wrapper around the
instance variable for the `NSMutableArray`. If you don't remember
exactly what this does, please see the
[iOS Overview](/lectures/2013/01/15/intro-objective-c) lecture.

{% highlight objectivec %}
@property (nonatomic,readonly,strong) NSMutableArray* planner;
{% endhighlight %}

The attribute `nonatomic` means it is not thread-safe. Which is fine
because for most of our projects we will be using a single
thread. `readonly` means that users of our model will not be able to
update it. `strong` is the most important attribute, which refers to
the memory management of our model. It means that when our view
controller goes off screen, the model stays around until it is
explicitly deleted. 

#### Problem

If our model is readonly, how can it be updated, even by us? We need
to redeclare the model in our private interface as `readwrite` meaning
it can be updated, but only internally. 

{% highlight objectivec %}
@interface JDViewController ()

@property (nonatomic,readwrite,strong) NSMutableArray* planner;
@property (weak, nonatomic) IBOutlet UITextView *plannerItemText;
@property (weak, nonatomic) IBOutlet UIStepper *plannerItemStepper;

@end
{% endhighlight %}

Finally, this model starts out non-existant, which is bad. I want to
make sure the model is an allocated `NSMutableArray` every time it is
used, so we will overwrite the *getter* that was created by the
`@property`. Remember that the name of the *getter* message is just
the name of the property. 

{% highlight objectivec %}
@implementation JDViewController

- (NSMutableArray*)planner {
    if (!_planner) { // check if instance variable is initialized
        _planner = [[NSMutableArray alloc] init];
        [_planner addObject:@""]; // start it off with an empty string
		    // as its first element
    }
    return _planner;
}
{% endhighlight %}

## Implementing the buttons

When the *edit* button is touched, we want to pull up the keyboard and
make the text view editable to allow the user to type stuff in. Lets
do that

{% highlight objectivec %}
- (IBAction)EditButtonTapped:(UIButton *)sender {
  self.plannerItemText.editable = YES; 
  // Pull up the keyboard and put the keys into the text view
  [self.plannerItemText becomeFirstResponder];
}
}
{% endhighlight %}

Thats great, run the program to test its functionality. 

#### Problem 1:

After we type some text, we need a way to say we are done and to save
our work and get rid of the keyboard. Lets change the text of the
button to *done* and use it to remove the keyboard. 

{% highlight objectivec %}
- (IBAction)EditButtonTapped:(UIButton *)sender {
  self.plannerItemText.editable = YES; 
  // Pull up the keyboard and put the keys into the text view
  [self.plannerItemText becomeFirstResponder];
  sender.title.text = "Done"
}
}
{% endhighlight %}

#### Problem 2:

When we run the program now, the text of the button still does not
change. But if we pay close attention, we can see that is does sau
*done* momentarily and then changes back to *edit*. This problem is
that the button has *states* and in the normal state of the button
(unclicked) the text is still set to *edit*. Change this.

{% highlight objectivec %}
- (IBAction)EditButtonTapped:(UIButton *)sender {
  self.plannerItemText.editable = YES; 
  // Pull up the keyboard and put the keys into the text view
  [self.plannerItemText becomeFirstResponder];
  [sender setTitle:@"Done" forState:UIControlStateNormal];
}
}
{% endhighlight %}

While we are at it, lets also do a different action depending on
whether the button says *Edit* or *Done*. I'm not sure how to do this
however, lets try comparing the text using `==`. We will print to the
console if let us know whether the `if` statement was triggered. 

{% highlight objectivec %}
- (IBAction)EditButtonTapped:(UIButton *)sender {
  if ([sender.titleLabel.text == @"Edit"]) {
    NSLog(@"Can use == to compare text");
  
    self.plannerItemText.editable = YES; 
    // Pull up the keyboard and put the keys into the text view
    [self.plannerItemText becomeFirstResponder];
    [sender setTitle:@"Done" forState:UIControlStateNormal];
  }
  else {
    // Get rid of keyboard
	[self.plannerItemText resignFirstResponder];
    self.plannerItemText.editable = NO;
	
	// Set button text back to "Edit"
    [sender setTitle:@"Edit" forState:UIControlStateNormal];
  }
}
}
{% endhighlight %}

Look in the *debug view* for the log message `Can use == to compare
text`. If it is not there, then we know that the `if` statement was
not triggered and can cannot use `==` to compare text. Change that
line of code to 

{% highlight objectivec %}
- (IBAction)EditButtonTapped:(UIButton *)sender {
  if ([sender.titleLabel.text isEqualToString:@"Edit"]) {
    NSLog(@"Can NOT use == to compare text");
  
    self.plannerItemText.editable = YES; 
    // Pull up the keyboard and put the keys into the text view
    [self.plannerItemText becomeFirstResponder];
    [sender setTitle:@"Done" forState:UIControlStateNormal];
  }
  else {
    // Get rid of keyboard
	[self.plannerItemText resignFirstResponder];
    self.plannerItemText.editable = NO;
	
	// Set button text back to "Edit"
    [sender setTitle:@"Edit" forState:UIControlStateNormal];
  }
}
}
{% endhighlight %}

### Inputting multiple TO-DO items

Currently we are just overwriting the text in the text box whenever we
click edit, but if we want to input multiple item, we need a way to
navigate between them. Lets use the *stepper* to change our index in
the `NSMutableArray` and display the text at that index.

{% highlight objectivec %}
- (IBAction)PlannerItemStepperChanged:(UIStepper *)sender {
    int iItem = sender.value; // index currently in the stepper
    NSLog(@"Stepper Value: %d", iItem);

    // replace the text view with the text from our planner model
    self.plannerItemText.text = [self.planner objectAtIndex:iItem];
    
}
{% endhighlight %}

**Important Note:** 
In the storyboard, you need to change the min and
max values of the stepper to be initialized to 0. Also change the
*Bahavior* of the stepper to be `wrap`. Do this in the storyboard by
clicking on the stepper and opening the *Utilities view* and the
*attributes inspector* tab bar item.
  
Now we can use this stepper to save additional TO-DOs into our model
when the *Done* button is pushed.

### Saving to our Model

Add this code to the `EditButtonTapped` method at the bottom of the
`else` clause

{% highlight objectivec %}
int iItem = [self.plannerItemStepper value];
        NSString* oldText = [self.planner objectAtIndex:iItem];
        if (! [oldText isEqualToString:self.plannerItemText.text]) {
            [self.planner replaceObjectAtIndex:[self.plannerItemStepper value] withObject:self.plannerItemText.text];
            [self.planner addObject:@""];
            self.plannerItemStepper.maximumValue++;
        }
{% endhighlight %}

This gets the value of the stepper and stores the text currently in
the text box into the `NSMutableArray` model. It also adds another
empty string to the model which will hold the next TO-DO being
entered. Finally it increases the `maximumValue` of the stepper to
reflect the added item.

# On Your Own

Following this walkthrough and turning it in reflects a **B** level of
work. To get an **A**, add at least one view and one action to the
code. This can accomplish anything you want, but should be related to
the task at hand, which is to create a Planner application. If I feel
you have explored the API or Xcode more thoroughly in any way, you
will get the points. This is your time to impress me!



## Final implementation for reference

{% highlight objectivec %}
//
//  JDViewController.m
//  PlannerExample
//
//  Created by Adam Walz on 1/16/13.
//  Copyright (c) 2013 Juan Diego Catholic High School. All rights reserved.
//

#import "JDViewController.h"

@interface JDViewController ()

@property (nonatomic,readwrite,strong) NSMutableArray* planner;
@property (weak, nonatomic) IBOutlet UITextView *plannerItemText;
@property (weak, nonatomic) IBOutlet UIStepper *plannerItemStepper;

@end

@implementation JDViewController

- (NSMutableArray*)planner {
    if (!_planner) {
        _planner = [[NSMutableArray alloc] init];
        [_planner addObject:@""];
    }
    return _planner;
}

- (IBAction)EditButtonTapped:(UIButton *)sender {
    if ([sender.titleLabel.text isEqualToString:@"Edit"]) {
        NSLog(@"Can not use == to compare text");

        self.plannerItemText.editable = YES;
        [self.plannerItemText becomeFirstResponder];
        [sender setTitle:@"Done" forState:UIControlStateNormal];
    }
    else {
        [self.plannerItemText resignFirstResponder];
        self.plannerItemText.editable = NO;
        [sender setTitle:@"Edit" forState:UIControlStateNormal];

        int iItem = [self.plannerItemStepper value];
        NSString* oldText = [self.planner objectAtIndex:iItem];
        if (! [oldText isEqualToString:self.plannerItemText.text]) {
            [self.planner replaceObjectAtIndex:[self.plannerItemStepper value] withObject:self.plannerItemText.text];
            [self.planner addObject:@""];
            self.plannerItemStepper.maximumValue++;
        }
    }
}

- (IBAction)PlannerItemStepperChanged:(UIStepper *)sender {
    int iItem = sender.value;
    NSLog(@"Stepper Value: %d", iItem);

    self.plannerItemText.text = [self.planner objectAtIndex:iItem];
    
}


- (void)viewDidUnload {
    [self setPlannerItemStepper:nil];
    [super viewDidUnload];
}
@end

{% endhighlight %}
